# Aradir - A Fast Passage into Modded OpenMW


## **Background**

Mod lists for OpenMW are incredibly time consuming to download and configure correctly, even when they've been replicated time and time again. 

This is a solution to handle large lists of mods (50, 90, 100 200+) so that you aren't spending 4-16 hours trying to enjoy a modernized version of the amazing game that is Morrowind.

With Aradir, after someone has implemented a list of mods, they should be easily replicated on your system without copying/bundling mods. Authors still have agency and users have a quicker process so they can start playing the game they love.

> The full name for Aradir is `Seyda Aradir` meaning "Fast Passage" using a fan-made word for "Fast" in Dunmeris, the language of the Dunmer.

## **Requirements**

1. Recent version of [Google Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/)
2. Clean version of [OpenMW 0.48](https://openmw.org/downloads/)
3. [DeltaPlugin](https://gitlab.com/bmwinger/delta-plugin/-/releases) (for most mod lists)

## **Support**

Currently supports:

* **Windows**
* ~~Mac~~
* ~~Linux~~

Mac and Linux support could be fairly easy, but I'm focused on getting Windows support solid before I move onto new platforms.

## **Optional Steps**

> These steps will make maintaining your mods much easier.

1. Open Chrome and navigate to Settings > Downloads
2. Set your default download location to the folder where you want your mod downloads to go, ie "Users/Downloads/OpenMW Mods"
3. Close Chrome

## **Mandatory Steps**

1. Download DeltaPlugin and extract it into a folder, keep this path for later.
2. Download the Aradir and extract it into a folder so that the executable and other files are together.
3. Open Chrome and sign into Nexus Mods, then exit.
4. Open `preferences.yaml` and add the required paths.
5. If you've filled in all of the paths correctly and don't need to pass arguments, double click on the `aradir` executable and that will start the process!

## **Paths**

* `downloads` is the folder where you downloaded all of your mod archives. Aradir will look in this folder to find mods. 

  > Suggested: `<path to downloads>/Downloads/OpenMW Mods` or `<path to downloads>/Downloads/mods/OpenMW`

* `modinstall` is the folder where you want your mods to be extracted to and where OpenMW will look for mod data.
* `gamedata` is where your Morrowind files are, and where you would see the Morrowind executable.
* `settings` is there folder where OpenMW keeps game settings, usually `C:/Users/<username>/My Games/OpenMW` on Windows.
* `openmw` is where the OpenMW executable is, which Aradir needs to launch the game with custom configs and mod lists.
* `delta` is the path to the DeltaPlugin executable needed to merge mod data for many mod lists.



## A Note to Mod Creators

There may be some of you that aren't a fan of this, but let me assuage your fears.
1. This is specficially for OpenMW and it will always be so.
2. This is *not* a singular package that does away with mod creator's name, just a tool used to make an existing process better.
3. If you have a donation section on Nexus, the user will still see it before they decide to download the mod.
4. I'd love to work more creator identity (names and links) into the UI if I can in future to make sure you all get the eyes you deserve for the hard work you've put into building amazing content for Morrowind.

Players are already going through this same cycle, just very slowly and painfully. The project is an effort to bridge the gap until better alternatives are available.

# Notes
### **Download Speed**
> Right now only Slow Download on Nexus Mods is supported, but there might be an option in the future to check if the user is Premium and use the faster download option.